README.rst, before:

===========
ps_picker
===========

Seismological P- and S- wave picker using the modified Kurtosis method

Python port of the picker described in Baillard et al., 2014

debugging information is saved to the local file run_{datetime}.log

Methodology
####################################

The picker is based around the Kurtosis, but also uses energy levels, polarity,
clustering and phase association in a 3-step process:

Step 1: define a global pick window
*********************************************************************

The *Kurtosis* is calculated for all stations.  The global window
surrounds the most densely clustered region of triggers.

Step 2: pick P and S arrivals on each station individually
*********************************************************************

For each station:
    - calculate the *Kurtosis* over coarse to fine scales.
    - Identify candidates on the coarse scale and refine their times using
      the finier scales
    - Choose P- and S- candidates based on the *signal-to-noise level* of
      each pick
    - Verify the candidates using the waveform *polarity*, if possible
       - polarity is only used if one of the picks has a dip of > 30 degrees

Step 3: associate picks
*********************************************************************

- Calculate origin times for each trace, based on the P-S delay and
  a simple velocity model (could I use a single Vp/Vs value?)
- If at least 3 origin times are clustered, use their average origin time
  to validate all candidates, possibly dipping into the pool of unused
  candidates for replacemene P and S picks
- If less than 3 origin times are clustered, reject bad P- and S- picks
  based on clustering of P-pick times, S-pick times and P-S delays



Example workflow
####################################

Start by autopicking a few events, with all bells and whistles on:
*********************************************************************

To pick one event from a database in `/SEISAN/MAYOBS`:

.. code:: python

    from pspicker import PSPicker
    picker = PSPicker('parameters_C.yaml', '/SEISAN/MAYOBS/WAV/MAYOB',  '/SEISAN/MAYOBS/REA/MAYOB')
    picker.run_one('19-0607-59L.S201905', plot_global=True, plot_stations=True, log_level='verbose')


Look at all of the plots and verify that the picks and association are as
you expect.  If not, change the paramters and run again.

Next, pick several events with only the global plots on
*********************************************************************

The bells and whistles text will be saved to a log file named
run_{DATETIME}.log

To pick events from May 5th to 25th in the same database:

.. code:: python

    from pspicker import PSPicker
    picker = PSPicker('parameters_C.yaml', '/SEISAN/MAYOBS/WAV/MAYOB',  '/SEISAN/MAYOBS/REA/MAYOB')
    picker.run_many('20190505', '20190525', plot_global=True)


Finally, run the whole database without plots
*********************************************************************

*(run_{DATETIME}.log is always created)*

To pick events from May 26th 2019 May 1st 2020:

.. code:: python

    from pspicker import PSPicker
    picker = PSPicker('parameters_C.yaml', '/SEISAN/MAYOBS/WAV/MAYOB', '/SEISAN/MAYOBS/REA/MAYOB')
    picker.run_many('20190526', '20200501')


The three main methods:
####################################

.. code:: python

    def __init__(self, parm_file, wav_base_path, database_path_in,
                 database_path_out='Sfile_directory', database_format='NORDIC'):
        """
        :param parm_file: path/name of the parameter file
        :param wav_base_path: absolute basepath to the waveform files (just before
                              the YEAR/MONTH subdirectories)
        :param database_path_in: absolute basepath to the database/catalog file(s)
                                 (just before the YEAR/MONTH subdirectories)
        :param database_path_out: path to output database files
        :param database_format: 'NORDIC' is the only choice for now
            'NORDIC': Use SEISAN conventions for waveform  and database files
                      (naming, and location in YEAR/MONTH subdirectories)
        """

.. code:: python

    def run_one(self, database_filename, plot_global=True, plot_stations=False,
                assoc=None, log_level="verbose", debug_plots=None):
        """
        Picks P and S arrivals on one waveform, using the Kurtosis
    
        Information in the database file will be appended with the picks.
        :param database_filename: database file to read
        :param plot_global: show global and overall pick plots
        :param plot_stations: show individual station plots
        :param assoc: Associator object (used by run_many())
        :param log_level: console log level (choices = 'debug', 'verbose',
            'info', 'warning', 'error', 'critical'), default='info'
        :param debug_plots: same as in creator
        """

.. code:: python

    def run_many(self, start_date, end_date, plot_global=False,
        plot_stations=False, ignore_fails=False, log_level='info'):
        """
        Loops over events in a date range
    
        :param start_date: "YYYYMMDD" or "YYYYMMDDHHMM" of first data to process
        :param end_date: "YYYYMMDD" of last data to process
        :param plot_global: show global and overall pick plots
        :param plot_stations: show individual station plots
        :param ignore_fails: keep going if one run fails
        :param log_level: console log level (choices = 'debug', 'verbose',
                          'info', 'warning', 'error', 'critical'), default='info'        
        """

Parameter and response files 
####################################

`Are documented here <file_examples.rst>`_

To get the same results as with the old Matlab program, set the following
values:

- set ``association:method`` to **"arrival_time"**
- set ``station_parameters:{type}:max_candidates`` to **2**
- set ``SNR:threshold_parameter`` to **0.2**
- set ``SNR:max_threshold_crossings`` to **5**

To Do
####################################

- Add event location-based acceptance of solitary P- and S- candidates
- In P-, S- and P-S clustering stage, allow unused candidates to be
  substituted for rejected picks
- Dedicated `To Do file <ToDo.md>`_
    
Also see the `profiling file <profiling.md>`_

Commit message:

Modified README and updated version number
Incremented "major" version because json_pz format has changed a bit (default input_units
are now "m/s")

README.rst, after:

===========
ps_picker
===========

Seismological P- and S- wave picker using the modified Kurtosis method

Python port of the picker described in Baillard et al., 2014

debugging information is saved to the local file run_{datetime}.log

Methodology
####################################

The picker is based around the Kurtosis, but also uses energy levels, polarity,
clustering and phase association in a 3-step process:

Step 1: define a global pick window
*********************************************************************

The *Kurtosis* is calculated for all stations.  The global window
surrounds the most densely clustered region of triggers.

Step 2: pick P and S arrivals on each station individually
*********************************************************************

For each station:
    - calculate the *Kurtosis* over coarse to fine scales.
    - Identify candidates on the coarse scale and refine their times using
      the finier scales
    - Choose P- and S- candidates based on the *signal-to-noise level* of
      each pick
    - Verify the candidates using the waveform *polarity*, if possible
       - polarity is only used if one of the picks has a dip of > 30 degrees

Step 3: associate picks
*********************************************************************

- Calculate origin times for each trace, based on the P-S delay and
  a simple velocity model (could I use a single Vp/Vs value?)
- If at least 3 origin times are clustered, use their average origin time
  to validate all candidates, possibly dipping into the pool of unused
  candidates for replacemene P and S picks
- If less than 3 origin times are clustered, reject bad P- and S- picks
  based on clustering of P-pick times, S-pick times and P-S delays



Example workflow
####################################

Start by autopicking a few events, with all bells and whistles on:
*********************************************************************

To pick one event from a database in `/SEISAN/MAYOBS`:

.. code:: python

    from pspicker import PSPicker
    picker = PSPicker('parameters_C.yaml', '/SEISAN/MAYOBS/WAV/MAYOB',  '/SEISAN/MAYOBS/REA/MAYOB')
    picker.run_one('19-0607-59L.S201905', plot_global=True, plot_stations=True, log_level='verbose')


Look at all of the plots and verify that the picks and association are as
you expect.  If not, change the paramters and run again.

Next, pick several events with only the global plots on
*********************************************************************

The bells and whistles text will be saved to a log file named
run_{DATETIME}.log

To pick events from May 5th to 25th in the same database:

.. code:: python

    from pspicker import PSPicker
    picker = PSPicker('parameters_C.yaml', '/SEISAN/MAYOBS/WAV/MAYOB',  '/SEISAN/MAYOBS/REA/MAYOB')
    picker.run_many('20190505', '20190525', plot_global=True)


Finally, run the whole database without plots
*********************************************************************

*(run_{DATETIME}.log is always created)*

To pick events from May 26th 2019 May 1st 2020:

.. code:: python

    from pspicker import PSPicker
    picker = PSPicker('parameters_C.yaml', '/SEISAN/MAYOBS/WAV/MAYOB', '/SEISAN/MAYOBS/REA/MAYOB')
    picker.run_many('20190526', '20200501')


The three main methods:
####################################

.. code:: python

    def __init__(self, parm_file, wav_base_path, database_path_in,
                 database_path_out='Sfile_directory', database_format='NORDIC'):
        """
        :param parm_file: path/name of the parameter file
        :param wav_base_path: absolute basepath to the waveform files (just before
                              the YEAR/MONTH subdirectories)
        :param database_path_in: absolute basepath to the database/catalog file(s)
                                 (just before the YEAR/MONTH subdirectories)
        :param database_path_out: path to output database files
        :param database_format: 'NORDIC' is the only choice for now
            'NORDIC': Use SEISAN conventions for waveform  and database files
                      (naming, and location in YEAR/MONTH subdirectories)
        """

.. code:: python

    def run_one(self, database_filename, plot_global=True, plot_stations=False,
                assoc=None, log_level="verbose", debug_plots=None):
        """
        Picks P and S arrivals on one waveform, using the Kurtosis
    
        Information in the database file will be appended with the picks.
        :param database_filename: database file to read
        :param plot_global: show global and overall pick plots
        :param plot_stations: show individual station plots
        :param assoc: Associator object (used by run_many())
        :param log_level: console log level (choices = 'debug', 'verbose',
            'info', 'warning', 'error', 'critical'), default='info'
        :param debug_plots: same as in creator
        """

.. code:: python

    def run_many(self, start_date, end_date, plot_global=False,
        plot_stations=False, ignore_fails=False, log_level='info'):
        """
        Loops over events in a date range
    
        :param start_date: "YYYYMMDD" or "YYYYMMDDHHMM" of first data to process
        :param end_date: "YYYYMMDD" of last data to process
        :param plot_global: show global and overall pick plots
        :param plot_stations: show individual station plots
        :param ignore_fails: keep going if one run fails
        :param log_level: console log level (choices = 'debug', 'verbose',
                          'info', 'warning', 'error', 'critical'), default='info'        
        """

Parameter and response files 
####################################

`Are documented here <file_examples.rst>`_

To get the same results as with the old Matlab program, set the following
values:

- set ``association:method`` to **"arrival_time"**
- set ``station_parameters:{type}:max_candidates`` to **2**
- set ``SNR:threshold_parameter`` to **0.2**
- set ``SNR:max_threshold_crossings`` to **5**

Event amplitudes 
####################################

Event amplitudes calculations need accurate instrument responses.  The
instrument response filename(s) are input in the parameter file.  If you have
as stationxml file, you can make a pspicker_compatible json_pz file like this:

.. code:: python

    paz = PAZ.read_stationxml(filename, channel=xxx[, station=xxxx])
    paz.write_json_pz (ps_filename)

If you have a response in another format that you can read in using obspy,
you can output it to a pspicker-compatible json_pz file like this:

.. code:: python

    paz = PAZ.from_obspy_response(resp)
    paz.write_json_pz(pz_filename)

In both cases, you can look at the response using `paz.plot(min_freq=xxx)`, or
you could compare it to the obspy_response using:

.. code:: python

    fig = resp.plot(min_freq=xxx, label='obspy', show=False)
    paz = PAZ.from_obspy_response(resp)
    paz.plot(min_freq=xxx, axes=fig.axes, label='PAZ', sym='g.')


To Do
####################################

- Add event location-based acceptance of solitary P- and S- candidates
- In P-, S- and P-S clustering stage, allow unused candidates to be
  substituted for rejected picks
- Dedicated `To Do file <ToDo.md>`_
    
Also see the `profiling file <profiling.md>`_
